>> Brian Holt: The next thing I'm gonna
need you to do is open .babel.rc.
>> Brian Holt: If you remember,
we're using import everywhere,
the ES6 module system in Node.
We're gonna have to translate that so Node
knows how to understand it because Node
still does not know how to do ES6 modules,
right.
So we´re gonna have to give
it another env here and
it´s gonna actually be the same as test.
That´s not always gonna be the case,
it´s probably often gonna be the case,
but we´re gonna make another one called
server,
>> Brian Holt: That's
gonna have plugins,
>> Brian Holt: And
it's gonna have the same
transform-es2015-modules-commonjs.
>> Brian Holt: Again,
you could make these the same env.
>> Brian Holt: They're different concerns,
right?
What goes into test is not necessarily
gonna be what goes into the server
but,
>> Brian Holt: So I recommend against
doing that, despite the fact
that it'd be impossible, okay?
So,
>> Brian Holt: From here I want you to
create a new file,
it's going to be called server.js.
It's going to be outside of the JS
directory cuz everything in the JS
directory is our React app.
This is going to be in the top level,
this is going to be our node server.
>> Brian Holt: And this is just gonna be
a lot of code all at once because you need
all of it for it to work,
so just bear with me.
First thing I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna use some
console logging in here and that's okay.
So no-console: 0, this is turning
off the no console warning for
this particular file.
First thing we're gonna do up
here is require babel-register.
>> Brian Holt: There's
a couple ways you can do this.
I'm using babel-register, which means
everything in this file itself will not be
transpiled, so I can't use JSX or anything
that Node doesn't understand here.
But everything that it requires
will be run through Babel.
So when I require my app, it can use jsx,
it can use es, like future es stuff.
All that's fine and
that's what babel-register does for you.
It's kind of hooking into that require and
running in all through Babel.
There's another thing called
babel-node that will actually compile
the file that's being run as well and
you're welcome to use that.
It's kind of up to you.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's just require a bunch of stuff now.
So const express = require('express').
>> Brian Holt: const React
= require ('react').
>> Brian Holt: const ReactDOMServer,
>> Brian Holt: = require
('react-dom/server').
const ReactRouter = require
(react-router-dom').
const _ = require ('lodash').
Const fs = require ('fs').
And const App = require
('./js/app').
And something you're
going to have to do here.
If you recall we're using ES6 modules,
so when that get's translated to
being a required common js module,
remember we export default, right?
So you're going to have to say .default,
that's just what you have to do there.
>> Brian Holt: Cuz this is going to return
to an object with one key in it and
the one key in it is going to be default.
And hence you have pull
the default part off of it.
Okay, from here we're gonna pull out
const StaticRouter =
ReactRouter.StaticRouter.
>> Brian Holt: This StaticRouter is going
to be what we're going to use to replace
BrowserRouter.
This works in Node.
Okay, const port, you can put
this in whatever port suits you.
I'm gonna put it on 8080.
>> Brian Holt: const baseTemplate,
this is going to be our index.html file.
It is going to be equal
to fs.readFileSync('
./index.html').
>> Brian Holt: So just so you're aware,
this is definitely not a Node course,
but readFileSync is going to read
this file from the file system.
And it's going to pause until
it is finished reading.
This is typically a horrible idea,
however, on startup it's okay, right,
cuz this is going to be read once.
If you're doing readFileSync at every
request you're gonna have a bad time for
sure, so just be aware.
Typically you would do here is readFile,
right, and
then you would provide it a callback
once it was finished reading it.
But here we can do sync, since this
is gonna be done once on startup, and
that's totally fine.
>> Brian Holt: const template
= _.template(baseTemplate).
What template is going to be now is
a function that when we invoke it, we
pass in body and we're going to get back
our markup inside of the index.html file.
So this is a function.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, that should be
enough kind of set up for ourselves.
And now we're gonna say
const server = express().
Again, you can do this with
any different Node server.
We could use Restify,
we could use Happy, we could use Kula.
I am just using Express because it's very
simple and it suits our needs for today.
And the first thing we´re gonna do here
is say server.use('/public',
express.static ('./public')).
This is just saying statically serve
everything that's in the public directory.
So that's all our CSS,
that'll be our bundle.js,
that will be all that stuff,
all the images.
It'll also put all the correct mime
types and all that kind of stuff for
us because that's really
annoying to write yourself.
Okay and then after that we're
gonna say server.use((rec, res) ).
This is where we're going to be doing our
templating and all that kind of stuff.
>> Brian Holt: So
I'll pull this up so you can see it.
So the first thing we're gonna wanna
do is create a context object.
>> Brian Holt: This is something that's
going to be passed to ReactRouter.
>> Brian Holt: Gonna say const body =
ReactDOMServer.renderToString.
So you know how we use ReactDOM.render and
then we tell it where to
put it in the DOM, right?
This is replacing that,
instead of rendering out to as a DOM or
something like that, it's just going to
give you back a string of the html, okay.
>> Brian Holt: Then here,
remember that we're not in jsx land, so
we can't use jsx here.
So we're going to fall back to that
first set of skills that I taught you,
very first thing,
of using React.createElement.
>> Brian Holt: So
this should all look familiar to you.
So React.createElement,
>> Brian Holt: And
the first most outermost layer
is going to be the StaticRouter.
And we're going to pass to
the StaticRouter the location,
which is going to be rec.url, right?
That's what the user
requested from the website.
And we're going to pass to
it the context object, but
if you remember context: context,
we can shorten that down to just context.
But that's what that is, context: context.
And then inside of that,
we're gonna have React.createElement(App).
And we don't need to give anything to App,
that's just fine, right?
So it's gonna be a StaticRouter on
the outside, and App on the inside, and
that's all that's gonna be.
Okay, so now we're gonna get the string
which is gonna be here on body, right?
>> Brian Holt: So the reason why we passed
in this context objects to ReactRouter
is sometimes you're gonna get redirected,
right?
Our app will never redirect, because
we never wrote any redirects, right?
But if that happens, I wanted to show
you how that you would handle that.
Oops.
>> Brian Holt: So you're gonna say
if(context.url), so this is gonna say,
ReactRouter is going to modify this
context object that you pass into it.
If there's a redirect in here you can say,
res.redirect.
>> Brian Holt: And you can put the status
on here if you want to, like 301 or
302 depending on what you're doing.
I'm just gonna leave it off for now.
(context.url), I think it defaults
to 301 if I remember correctly.
So that's how you do that.
If there is a redirect, this will send
them off to wherever they need to go.
Otherwise res.write(template({body:
body}),
but again we can just put .
>> Brian Holt: And
then you're gonna say res.end.
>> Brian Holt: So this is server-side
rendering with ReactRouter.
What's amazing about this is we don't have
to duplicate our logic anymore, right?
We get to write one set of route
definitions in the client and
it's automatically sent to Node as well.
So you have one source of truth.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
down here at the bottom we're gonna
say console.log('listening on $')
to let it see into the console
that we're up and going.
And then we're gonna say
server.listen(port).
>> Brian Holt: If you want to,
you can say up here, console.log.
Something I like to do is (req.url) so
I can see requests coming in and
where they're going.
And typically, you would have some sort of
like server logging framework like Morgan
or something like that.
>> Brian Holt: There's plenty of
great Node stuff on Frontend Masters.
So if that's interesting to you,
go down that path.